Day 24: (29-Sep-2023)
------------------------------
Jenkins
Continues Integration and Continues Development

We dont need to install anything for jenkins.
We just need to download jenkins war file from jenkins portal.
thats all.

Why we need Jenkins? What is Continuous Integration and Continuous Development?
	shortly called as CI/CD

CI/CD is very popular approach.

What is CI/CD?

Scenario:
	Suppose, you (Skanda) develop a project.
	Nitin is the deployer. He has AWS a/c credentials and so he only can deploy the project in AWS
	
	After sometime, Skanda do some changes to the project.
	How does that change reflect in AWS server?
		Nitin has to re-deploy the project.

	This process is complicated.
This is where, CI/CD helps us.

Solution:
------------
	If Skanda push the project to git hub (or any such platform)
	And Nitin deploy the application from git hub (or any such platform)
	Then, Nitin has created a pipeline for git in aws.

	Whenever Skanda push the changes to git. Then the changes are captured by the CI/CD pipeline from git. Git notifies as push notification.

	Problem solved.

we learn AWS later.
we learn Git later.

But we can orchestrate this process in Jenkins now.
First of all, how to run a java program using Jenkins. You can learn now.
I can push projects to git and give you the link. You can proceed with practicals now.

During training room session, we will install git and proceed.

Lab setup for Jenkins:
1) download jenkins war file from 
	https://www.jenkins.io/download/

2) keep the war file in c:\softwares\jenkins\ 

3) How to run jenkins in our system?
	go to the folder where jenkins war file is present
	cmd
		
we are in cmd prompt where jenkins war is present.
4)
	java -jar jenkins.war



delete the new war from downloads folder and softwares folder
now, download old version that support java 8 from:
https://get.jenkins.io/war-stable/2.164.1/


Jenkins is fully up and running

check localhost:8080

Steps for jenkins:
1) download jenkins war file.
	ensure that the version supports java 8
	https://get.jenkins.io/war-stable/
		the above url, shows the list of jenkins versions and their support to jdk
2) copy the jenkins war file to softwares folder
3) go to cmd prompt where this war file is present
4) java -jar jenkins.war
5) when you see "Jenkins is fully up and running"
	go to browser
		http://localhost:8080
6) Login to jenkins as admin:
	admin
	admin
7) inform me once you successfully logged in to jenkins
